# CodeQual: A Large Language Model Based Subjective Approach to Code Quality Assessment

CodeQual is a synthetic fine-tuning dataset comprising 2250 Python code snippets from [CodeNet](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.4814769), each annotated with a code quality label (low average, high). This dataset can be employed to fine-tune any Large Language Models trained on code for Code Quality Assessment task where a model is tasked with predicting a given code into it's quality tier. In this repository, we present [CodeQual](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.11062805) along with the codebase to fine-tune the pre-trained CodeBert Model to show it’s utility in fine-tuning LLMs. We named this fine-tuned model `CodeQualBert`.

# How to use this repository
This repository can be primarily used to fine-tune a code-trained LLM. The code uses [weights and bias](https://wandb.ai/) for experiment management and [direnv](https://direnv.net/) for environment variable management. You must have `.envrc` file in the project root directory with the following environment variables defined. The values shown for the environment variables are examples values suitable for fine-tuning a CodeBert mnodel.
```
export MODEL_NAME="microsoft/codebert-base"
export WANDB_PROJECT="codequalbert"
```
Once the environment variables are defined, you can fine-tune your desired pre-trained model with CodeQual using the following command from the project repository -
```
python driver.py --fine-tune testing1 3 0.00005 4
```
The first argument is the `experiment name` which is used to create a folder with this name under the experiments `directory` directory in project root. This folder houses the extracted checkpoints from the fine-tuning experiment. The `experiment name` is also used to uniquely name the experiment in Weights and Bias. The second, third and the fourth arguments are the epoch number, learning rate and the batch size, respectively.

# CodeQual Benchmark dataset
We intentionally removed CodeQual dataset from this repository to prevent contamination of code-trained LLMs that are trained on Github. We encourage the community to refrain from adding CodeQual dataset to any public GitHub repositories. CodeQual can be freely and independently downloaded from its permanent doi [link](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.11062805). The repository uses the CodeQual dataset in the Huggingface format can be generated by using the code below after jsonl files of CodeQual has been downloaded:

```
from datasets import load_dataset, Features, Value, ClassLabel
data_files = {'train': '../data/codeQualDatasetv1/train.jsonl',
              'validation': '../data/codeQualDatasetv1/valid.jsonl',
              'test': '../data/codeQualDatasetv1/test.jsonl'}
features = Features({'problem_id': Value(dtype='string', id=None),
                      'problem': Value(dtype='string', id=None),
                      'submission_id': Value(dtype='string', id=None),
                     'submission': Value(dtype='string', id=None),
                     'label': ClassLabel(num_classes=3, names=['low', 'average', 'high'])
                     })
code_qual_dataset = load_dataset('json', data_files=data_files, features=features)
code_qual_dataset.save_to_disk('../data/hf_code_qual_dataset_v1.1')
```
The schema of the dataset in Croissant format can be found in the `metadata.json` file under the `data/codeQualDatasetv1` folder.

# CodeQualBert Model
The CodeQualBert model is freely and publicly available to use from the [Huggingface Hub](https://huggingface.co/diwanshus/codequalbert). One can use the model in transformers as:
```
# Load model directly
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForSequenceClassification

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("diwanshus/codequalbert")
model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("diwanshus/codequalbert")
```
